Service Manager as a Platform and Async API support (#31)
Peripli/specification: api.md

* *Description*: A description is a human readable string, which SHOULD NOT exceed 255 characters. If a description is longer than 255 characters, the Service Manager MAY silently truncate it.

## Data Formats

The data format for all Service Manager endpoints is [JSON](https://json.org). That implies that all strings are Unicode strings.

The Service Manager deals with date-time values in some places. Because JSON lacks a date-time data type, date-time values are encoded as strings, following ISO 8601. The only supported date-time format is: `yyyy-mm-ddThh:mm:ss.s[Z|(+|-)hh:mm]`

### Content Type

All requests and responses defined in this specification with accompanying bodies SHOULD contain a `Content-Type` HTTP header set to `application/json`. If the `Content-Type` is not set, Service Brokers and Platforms MAY still attempt to process the body. If a Service Broker rejects a request due to a mismatched `Content-Type` or the body is unprocessable it SHOULD respond with `400 Bad Request`.

> ## Authentication an Authorization

Reviewer: `and`?

| 400 Bad Request | MUST be returned if the request is malformed or missing mandatory data. |
| 404 Not Found | MUST be returned if the requested resource is missing or if the user is not allowed to know this resource. |
| 409 Conflict | MUST be returned if associated entities exist and neither the `cascade` nor the `force` flags are set. |
| 422 Unprocessable Entity | MUST be returned if another operation in already in progress. |

Responses with a status code >= 400 will be interpreted as a failure. The response SHOULD include a user-facing message in the `description` field. For details see [Errors](#errors).

##### Headers

| Header | Type | Description |
| ------ | ---- | ----------- |
| Location | string | An URL from where the result for the [operation](#operation-object) can be obtained. This header MUST be present if the status `202 Accepted` has been returned and MUST NOT be present for all other status codes. |

##### Body

| Status Code | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| 200 OK | A valid JSON object. |
| 202 Accepted | Empty json `{}`. |
| 204 No Content | No body MUST be provided. |
| 4xx | An [Error Object](#errors). |

> ### Getting an specific operation for a resource 

Reviewer: `a specific`

            "username": "admin2",
            "password": "secret2"
        }
      },
      "labels": {
      },
      "ready": true
    }
  ]
}
```

### Patching a Platform

Patching of a `platform` resource entity MUST comply with [patching a resource entity](#patching-a-resource-entity).

#### Route

`PATCH /v1/platforms/:platform_id`

`:platform_id` The ID of a previously registered Platform.

##### Request Body

See [Registering a Platform](#registering-a-platform) and [Patching Labels](#patching-labels).

### Deleting a Platform

Deletion of a `platform` resource entity MUST comply with [deleting a resource entity](#deleting-a-resource-entity).

All [Service Visibilities](#service-visibility-management) entries that belong to this `platform` resource entity are automatically removed, regardless of the `cascade` and `force` flags.

#### Route

`DELETE /v1/platforms/:platform_id`

`:platform_id` MUST be the ID of a previously registered Platform.

## Service Broker Management

### Registering a Service Broker

Registering a broker in the Service Manager makes the services exposed by this service broker available to all Platforms registered in the Service Manager.

> Upon registration, Service Manager fetches and validate the catalog from the service broker.

Reviewer 2: fetches and validates the catalog

          "operation_type": "create",
          "type": "/v1/visibilities"
        },
        {
          "id": "4ab5f93d-c2bf-472e-abcb-ae798062f6d5",
          "operation_type": "create",
          "type": "/v1/visibilities"
        },
        {
          "id": "d4cbf5da-661c-44f6-a9d3-306c04c59add",
          "operation_type": "update",
          "type": "/v1/visibilities"
        },
        {
          "id": "de140874-694a-4579-83ed-139ab3a610b9",
          "operation_type": "create",
          "type": "/v1/notifications"
        },
        {
          "id": "910fc7d5-91ce-4190-b722-0523a02c31c5",
          "operation_type": "update",
          "type": "/v1/visibilities"
        },
        {
          "id": "cb9fc3fc-479b-4060-99b9-15a72cb3ffa6",
          "operation_type": "create",
          "type": "/v1/notifications"
        },
        {
          "id": "4ab5f93d-c2bf-472e-abcb-ae798062f6d5",
          "operation_type": "update",
          "type": "/v1/visibilities"
        },
        {
          "id": "e591ff90-6352-4e7d-b6c6-4434452e2800",
          "operation_type": "create",
          "type": "/v1/notifications"
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

> 

Reviewer 2: I do not see here operation per resource example.

Author: do you mean that you want one operation example for each resource type here ? i don't think this is necessary

## Overview

The Service Manager API defines a REST interface that allows the management of Platforms, Service Brokers, Service Offerings, Service Plans, Service Instances and Service Bindings from a central place. The Service Manager API can be split into three groups:
- A Service Manager Admin API to manage Service Brokers and attached Platforms.
- A Service Controller API that allows the Service Manager to act as an OSB Platform for Service Brokers that are registered in Service Manager ("Service Manager as a Platform").
- An OSB API which allows the Service Manager to act as a Service Broker for Platforms that are registered in Service Manager ("Service Manager as a Broker"). The latter implements the [Open Service Broker (OSB) API](https://github.com/openservicebrokerapi/servicebroker/).

One of the access channels to the Service Manager is via the [smctl CLI](https://github.com/Peripli/service-manager-cli). The API should play nice in this context.

## Terminology and Definitions

This document inherits the terminology from the Service Manager specification and [Open Service Broker API](https://github.com/openservicebrokerapi/servicebroker/) specification.

> Additionally, the follow terms and concepts are used:

Reviewer: `following`

| Operator | Field Query | Label Query |
| -------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| eq | Evaluates to true if the field value matches the literal. False otherwise. | Evaluates to true if the label exists and one label value matches the literal. False otherwise. |
| en | Evaluates to true if the field value matches the literal or if the field value is `null`. False otherwise. | Evaluates to true if the label exists and one label value matches the literal or if the label doesn't exist. False otherwise. |
| ne | Evaluates to true if the field value does not matches the literal. False otherwise. | Evaluates to true if the label exists and no label value matches the literal. False otherwise. |
| in | Evaluates to true if the field value matches at least one value in the list of literals. False otherwise. | Evaluates to true if the label exists and at least a label value matches one value in the list of literals. False otherwise. |
| notin | Evaluates to true if the field value does not match any value in the list of literals. False otherwise. | Evaluates to true if the label exists and no label value matches any value in the list of literals. False otherwise. |

> | and | Evaluates to true if both the left and right operands evaluate to true. False otherwise. ||

Reviewer 2: It is not clear if "and" is supported for label queries. If not supported - should be clearly stated in table cell. Otherwise, should be stated in both cells.

| name* | string | A CLI-friendly name of the Platform. MUST be unique across all Platforms registered with the Service Manager. MUST be a non-empty string. |
| type* | string | The type of the Platform. MUST be a non-empty string. SHOULD be one of the values defined for `platform` field in OSB [context](https://github.com/openservicebrokerapi/servicebroker/blob/master/profile.md#context-object). |
| description | string | A description of the Platform. |
| labels | collection of [labels](#labels-object) | Additional data associated with the resource entity. MAY be an empty object. |

\* Fields with an asterisk are REQUIRED

### Fetching a Platform

Fetching of a `platform` resource entity MUST comply with [fetching a resource entity](#fetching-a-resource-entity).

#### Route 

`GET /v1/platforms/:platform_id`

`:platform_id` MUST be the ID of an existing Platform.

#### Response Body

##### Platform Object

```json
{
    "id": "038001bc-80bd-4d67-bf3a-956e4d545e3c",
    "name": "cf-eu-10",
    "type": "cloudfoundry",
    "description": "Cloud Foundry on AWS in Frankfurt.",
    "created_at": "2016-06-08T16:41:22.23Z",
    "updated_at": "2016-06-08T16:41:26.471Z",

>     "credentials" : {

Reviewer 2: Credentials are not returned on GET - should be removed from this example.

        "basic": {
            "username": "admin",
            "password": "secret"
        }
    },
    "labels": {
      "label1": ["value1"]
    },
    "ready": true
}
```

| Response field | Type | Description |
| -------------- | ---- | ----------- |
| id | string | ID of the Platform. |
| name | string | Platform name. |
| type | string | Type of the Platform. |
| description | string | Platform description. |

> | credentials | [credentials](#credentials-object) | A JSON object that contains credentials which the Service Broker Proxy (or the Platform) MUST be used to authenticate against the Service Manager. Service Manager SHOULD be able to identify the calling Platform from these credentials. |

Reviewer 2: Not returned on GET. 
This is returned on POST, but there the response example is not shown.

| created_at | string | The time of the creation [in ISO 8601 format](#data-formats). |
| updated_at | string | The time of the last update [in ISO 8601 format](#data-formats). |
| labels | collection of [labels](#labels-object) | Additional data associated with the resource entity. MAY be an empty object. |
| ready | bool | whether the resource is ready or not. |

### Listing Platforms

Listing `platforms` MUST comply with [listing all resource entities of a resource type](#listing-all-resource-entities-of-a-resource-type).

#### Route

`GET /v1/platforms`

#### Response Body

```json
{

  "num_items": 2,
  "items": [
    {
      "id": "038001bc-80bd-4d67-bf3a-956e4d545e3c",
      "name": "cf-eu-10",
      "type": "cloudfoundry",
      "description": "Cloud Foundry on AWS in Frankfurt.",
      "created_at": "2016-06-08T16:41:22.25Z",
      "updated_at": "2016-06-08T16:41:26.6Z",

>       "credentials" : {

Reviewer 2: And here too.

The Service Manager MUST provide an [appropriate error](#errors) if the provided token is invalid. In this case, the client has to reiterate the list from the beginning.  
Clients control the size of the result set by setting the `max_items` parameter.

Paging can be controlled by the following query string parameters: 

| Query-String Field | Type | Description |
| ------------------ | ---- | ----------- |
| token | string | the token that was included in the previous page. The first page is requested by either not providing this parameter or providing an empty string. |
| max_items | int | the maximum number of items to return in the response. The server MUST NOT exceed this maximum but MAY return a smaller number of items than the specified value. The server SHOULD NOT return an error if `max_items` exceeds the internally supported page size. It SHOULD return a smaller number of items instead. If the client sets `max_items` to 0, it is assumed that the client is only interested in the total number of items. The default is implementation specific. |

##### Paging Response Headers

| Header | Type | Description |
| ------ | ---- | ----------- |

> | Link | string | If the response contains a `token` field, a `Link` header of type `rel="next"` SHOULD be return (see [RFC 8288](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8288.html#section-3.3)). If there is no `token` field, this header MUST NOT be present. |

Reviewer 3: "SHOULD be returned"

#### Response

| Status Code | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| 200 OK | MUST be returned upon successful retrieval of the resource entities. The expected response body is below. |
| 400 Bad Request | MUST be returned if the value of the `max_items` parameter is a negative number. |
| 404 NotFound | MUST be returned if the `token` parameter references an unknown or for the current user invisible entity. |

> Responses with a status code >= 400 will be interpreted as a failure. The response SHOULD include a user-facing message in the `description` field. For details see [Errors](#errors).

Reviewer 3: "SHOULD be interpreted"

##### Body

The response body MUST be a valid JSON Object.

| Response Field | Type | Description |
| -------------- | ---- | ----------- |

> | token | string | an opaque token that is required for fetching the next page. If the list contains additional items after those contained in the response, this MUST be a non-empty string. Otherwise this field MUST NOT be present. If this field is present, a request with a larger `max_items` value is expected to return additional results (unless the list has changed or `max_items` exceeds the internally supported page size). |

Reviewer 3: `token` is too generic, see above

Reviewer 3: why should `max_items` be larger?

> | num_items | int | if the server knows the total number of items in the result set, the server SHOULD include the number here. If the server does not know the number of items in the result set, this field MUST NOT be included. The value MAY NOT be accurate the next time the client retrieves the result set or the next page in the result set. |

Reviewer 3: `total_items` would be clearer

The response body MAY include information about the resource's `state`.

In case of ongoing asynchronous update of the resource entity, this operation MUST return the old fields' values (the one known prior to the update as there is no guarantee if the update will be successful).

## Listing All Resource Entities of a Resource Type

Returns all resource entities of this resource type.

### Request

#### Route

`GET /v1/:resource_type`

`:resources_type` MUST be a valid Service Manager resource type.

This endpoint supports [paging](#paging).

This endpoint supports [filtering](#filtering).

### Headers

The following HTTP Headers are defined for the operations.

| Header | Type | Description |
| ------ | ---- | ----------- |
| Authorization* | string | Provides a means for authentication and authorization |
| Location | string | an URL from where information about the [state](#state-object) of the resource can be obtained |

### Filtering Parameters

All `list` endpoints MUST support filtering.

There re two types of filtering.

1. Filtering based on labels.
2. Filtering based on resource fields (these are fields that are part of the resource's JSON representation).

> 

Author: the ready  is a field so it should be possible to be able to filter based on state.ready

### Concurrent Mutating Requests

Service Manager does not support concurrent mutating operations on the same resource entity. If a resource with type `:resource_type` and id `:resource_id` is currently being created/updated/deleted and this operation is in progress, then no other asynchronous mutating operation can be executed on the resource of type `:resource_type` and id `:resource_id` until the one that is currently in progress finishes. If the Service Manager receives a concurrent mutating request that it currently cannot handle due to another operation being in progress for the same resource entity, the Service Manager MUST reject the request and return HTTP status `422 Unprocessable Entity` and a meaningful [errors object](#errors).

## General Resource Management

The following section generalizes how Service Manager resources are managed. A `resource_type` represents one set of resource entities (for example service brokers). A `resource_entity` represents one record of a resource type (for example one service broker record).

## Creating a Resource Entity

### Request

#### Route

> `POST /v1/:resources_type`

Author: not sure about this one - if we introduce api groups, we would need a clear semantic and idea about atleast a few groups - and resource does not seem a very meaningful name for an api group

| 404 Not Found | MUST be returned if the requested resource is missing. The `description` field MAY be used to return a user-facing error message, providing details about which part of the request is malformed or what data is missing as described in [Errors](#errors). |

Responses with any other status code will be interpreted as a failure. The response can include a user-facing message in the `description` field. For details see [Errors](#errors).

#### Body

The response body MUST be a valid JSON Object (`{}`). Each resouce API in this document should include a relevant example.

The response body MAY include information about the resource's `state`.

In case of ongoing asynchronous update of the resource entity, this operation MUST return the old fields' values (the one known prior to the update as there is no guarantee if the update will be successful).

## Listing All Resource Entities of a Resource Type

Returns all resource entities of this resource type.

### Request

#### Route

`GET /v1/:resource_type`

`:resources_type` MUST be a valid Service Manager resource type.

This endpoint supports [paging](#paging).

This endpoint supports [filtering](#filtering).

> 

Author: I am not sure about this one. Probably it would make sense to list all with states

> 

Reviewer 4: I would go for listing all resources with their states

| 400 Bad Request | MUST be returned if the request is malformed or missing mandatory data or there are service bindings associated with the service instance and `force` is not `true`. The `description` field MAY be used to return a user-facing error message, as described in [Errors](#errors). |
| 404 Not Found | MUST be returned if the requested resource is missing. The `description` field MAY be used to return a user-facing error message, providing details about which part of the request is malformed or what data is missing as described in [Errors](#errors). |

Responses with any other status code will be interpreted as a failure. The response can include a user-facing message in the `description` field. For details see [Errors](#errors).

#### Body

The response body MUST be a valid JSON Object (`{}`).

For a success response, the expected response body MUST be `{}`.

**Note:** A response to a call to the Location URL will always return at least the `state` of the resource entity until the resource entity is gone (fully deleted) - then a `404 Not Found` MUST be returned.

## Platform Management

The resource supports [labels](#labels-object).

## Registering a Platform

> In order for a platform to be usable with the Service Manager, the Service Manager needs to know about the platforms existence. Essentially, registering a platform means that a new service broker proxy for this particular platform has been registered with the Service Manager.

Author: probably not, its an impl detail

  - [Deleting a Service Instance](#deleting-a-service-instance)
- [Service Binding Management](#service-binding-management)
  - [Creating a Service Binding](#creating-a-service-binding)
  - [Fetching a Service Binding](#fetching-a-service-binding)
  - [Listing Service Binding](#listing-service-bindings)
  - [Updating a Service Binding](#updating-a-service-binding)
  - [Deleting a Service Binding](#deleting-a-service-binding)
- [Service Offering Management](#service-offering-management)
  - [Fetching a Service Offering](#fetching-a-service-offering)
  - [Listing Service Offerings](#listing-service-offerings)
- [Service Plan Management](#service-plan-management)
  - [Fetching a Service Plan](#fetching-a-service-plan)
  - [Listing Service Plans](#listing-service-plans)
- [Service Visibility Management](#service-visibility-management)
- [Information Management](#information-management)
- [OSB Management](#osb-management)
- [Credentials Object](#credentials-object)
- [State Object](#state-object)
- [Labels Object](#labels-object)
- [Errors](#errors)
- [Content Type](#content-type)
- [Mitigating Orphans](#mitigating-orphans)

## Overview

> The Service Manager API defines an REST interface that allows the management of platforms, brokers, service offerings, plans, service instances and service bindings from a central place. The Service Manager API can be split into two groups - a Service Controller API that allows the Service Manager to act as an OSB platform for service brokers that are registered in Service Manager (Service Manager as a platform) and an OSB API which allows the Service Manager to act as a service broker for platforms that are registered in Service Manager (Service Manager as a broker). The latter implements the [Open Service Broker (OSB) API](https://github.com/openservicebrokerapi/servicebroker/).

Reviewer 5: Shouldn't we separate editorial changes from real spec changes?

- [OSB Management](#osb-management)
- [Credentials Object](#credentials-object)
- [State Object](#state-object)
- [Labels Object](#labels-object)
- [Errors](#errors)
- [Content Type](#content-type)
- [Mitigating Orphans](#mitigating-orphans)

## Overview

The Service Manager API defines an HTTP interface that allows the management of platforms, brokers, services, plans, service instances and service bindings from a central place. In general, the Service Manager API can be split into two groups - a Service Controller API that allows the Service Manager to act as an OSB platform for service brokers that are registered in SM (SM as a platform) and an OSB API which allows the Service Manager to act as a service broker for platforms that are registered in SM (SM as a broker). The latter implements the [Open Service Broker (OSB) API](https://github.com/openservicebrokerapi/servicebroker/).

One of the access channels to the Service Manager is via the `smctl` CLI. The API should play nice in this context.
A CLI-friendly string is all lowercase, with no spaces. Keep it short -- imagine a user having to type it as an argument for a longer command.

## Asynchronous Operations

> The Service Manager APIs for mutating (creating, deleting and updating) resources MUST work asynchronously. When such an operation is triggered, the Service Manager MUST respond with `202 Accepted` and a `Location header` specifying a location to obtain details about the [state](#state-object) of this resource. Any Service Manager client MAY then use the Location header's value to poll for the `state` and use the details of the `state` to provide user facing information about the resource's state.

Reviewer 3: Some resources may not need async mutation, e.g. platforms or service visibility. Requiring async operation on the resources would make the API unnecessarily complicated for the clients. 
Istead allow returning 201, if resource is created synchronously or 202, if this will be done async. The same for the other requests.

Reviewer 6: +1

Author: Makes sense - I was thinking about this also and there are two options to go about it

1. allow all apis to work either sync or async and let the client determine what to do depending on the status code response 
2. make all apis return 202 accepted and it would be implementation detail whether the work done inside was sync or async - the client would know that no matter what, it requires for him to do a GET to get the resource entity's details. 

My thoughts was that approach two would be simpler for the client because all requests would be processed in the same way. But i don't mind if we go with approach one.

Any thoughts ?

Reviewer 7: Registering a platform might be implemented in such a way that one provisions a new cluster for example. 
Having common behaviour for all resources seems better to me. Also, yes, the CLI would be easier this way

#### Headers

| Header | Type | Description |
| ------ | ---- | ----------- |
| Location* | string | an URL from where information about the [state](#state-object) of the resource can be obtained |

#### Body

The response body MUST be a valid JSON Object (`{}`).

For a success response, the response body MAY be `{}`.

**Note:** If the resource supports label, patching resource entities MUST also support patching the labels as specified in the [relevant section](#patching-labels).

## Deleting a Resource Entity

### Request

#### Route

`DELETE /v1/:resource_type/:resource_entity_id`

`:resources_type` MUST be a valid Service Manager resource type.

`:resource_entity_id` MUST be the ID of a previously created resource entity of this resource type.

#### Headers 

The following HTTP Headers are defined for the operations:

| Header | Type | Description |
| ------ | ---- | ----------- |
| Authorization* | string | Provides a means for authentication and authorization |

\* Headers with an asterisk are REQUIRED.

#### Parameters

| Name | Type | Description |
| ---- | ---- | ----------- |

> | force | boolean | Whether to force the deletion of the resource and all asociated resources from Service Manager. No call to the actual Service Broker is performed. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| force | boolean | Whether to force the deletion of the resource and all associated resources from Service Manager. Delete the resource from Service Manager database even if associated external resources cannot be deleted. For example delete a service instance even if the call to the respective Service Broker fails. **Caution:** use with care as this may leave untracked resources. |
```

### Service Bindings

The `service bindings` API is described [here](#service-binding-management).

Definition of the semantics behind the resource name can be found in the [OSB specification](https://github.com/openservicebrokerapi/servicebroker/blob/v2.14/spec.md#terminology).

### Service Offerings

The `service offerings` API is described [here](#service-offering-management).

Definition of the semantics behind the resource name can be found in the [OSB specification](https://github.com/openservicebrokerapi/servicebroker/blob/v2.14/spec.md#terminology).

### Service Plans

The `service plans` API is described [here](#service-plan-management).

Definition of the semantics behind the resource name can be found in the [OSB specification](https://github.com/openservicebrokerapi/servicebroker/blob/v2.14/spec.md#terminology).

### Service Visibilities

The `service visibilities` resource represents enforced visibility policies for service offerings and plans. This allows the Service Manager to specify where service plans are visible (in which platforms, CF orgs, etc).

> The `service visibilities` API is described [here](#service-visibility-management).

Reviewer 3: The link does not work.

  - [Overview](#overview)
  - [Platform Management](#platform-management)
    - [Registering a Platform](#registering-a-platform)
    - [Fetchhing a Platform](#fetching-a-platform)
    - [Listing Platforms](#listing-platforms)
    - [Updating a Platform](#updating-a-platform)
    - [Deleting a Platform](#deleting-a-platform)
  - [Service Broker Management](#service-broker-management)
    - [Registering a Service Broker](#registering-a-service-broker)

>     - [Fetching a Service Broker](#fetchhing-a-service-broker)

Reviewer 7: typo - fetching instead of fetchhing everywhere

\* Fields with an asterisk are REQUIRED.

## Deleting a Platform

### Request

`DELETE /v1/platforms/:platform_id`

`:platform_id` MUST be the ID of a previously registered platform.

#### Headers

The following HTTP Headers are defined for this operation:

| Header | Type | Description |
| ------ | ---- | ----------- |
| Authorization* | string | Provides a means for authentication and authorization |

\* Headers with an asterisk are REQUIRED.

### Response

| Status Code | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |

> | 200 OK | MUST be returned if the platform was deleted as a result of this request. The expected response body is `{}`. |

Reviewer 7: 202 Accepted.
Deleting a platform might be implemented such that it recursively deletes all instances and bindings in that platform

Author: yes, also deleting an instance can be implemented to delete all bindings associated with it - we should prolly think of some flag that the delete apis may have

| created_at | string | The time of the creation in ISO-8601 format |
| updated_at | string | The time of the last update in ISO-8601 format |
| labels* | array of [labels](#label-object) | Additional data associated with the service broker. MAY be an empty array. |
| state | [state object](#state-object) | The state of the platform. |

\* Fields with an asterisk are REQUIRED.

## Listing Platforms

Listing `platforms` MUST comply with [listing all resource entities of a resource type](#listing-all-resource-entities-of-a-resource-type).

### Route

`GET /v1/platforms`

### Response Body

```json
{
  "has_more_items": false,
  "num_items": 2,
  "items": [
    {
      "id": "038001bc-80bd-4d67-bf3a-956e4d545e3c",
      "name": "cf-eu-10",
      "type": "cloudfoundry",
      "description": "Cloud Foundry on AWS in Frankfurt",
      "created_at": "2016-06-08T16:41:22Z",
      "updated_at": "2016-06-08T16:41:26Z",
      "credentials" : {
        "basic": {
            "username": "admin",
            "password": "secret"
        }
      },
      "labels": {
        "label1": ["value1"]
      }

>     },

Author: yes atleast for now the idea is only the Single Fetch API to include state

### Route

`PATCH /v1/platforms/:platform_id`

`:platform_id` The ID of a previously registered platform.

#### Request Body

```json
{
    "name": "cf-eu-10",
    "type": "cloudfoundry",
    "description": "Cloud Foundry on AWS in Frankfurt",
    "labels": {

    }
}
```

| Request field | Type | Description |
| ------------- | ---- | ----------- |
| name | string | A CLI-friendly name of the platform. MUST only contain alphanumeric characters and hyphens (no spaces). MUST be unique across all platforms registered with the Service Manager. MUST be a non-empty string. |
| type | string | The type of the platform. MUST be a non-empty string. SHOULD be one of the values defined for `platform` field in OSB [context](https://github.com/openservicebrokerapi/servicebroker/blob/master/profile.md#context-object). |
| description | string | A description of the platform. |

All fields are OPTIONAL. Fields that are not provided, MUST NOT be changed.

## Deleting a Platform

Deletion of a `platform` resource entity MUST comply with [deleting a resource entity](#deleting-a-resource-entity).

### Route

`DELETE /v1/platforms/:platform_id`

> `:platform_id` MUST be the ID of a previously registered platform.

Author: a separate parameter cascade on the delete apis would make sense I think

  "bindable": true,
  "plan_updateable": false,
  "instances_retrievable": false,
  "bindings_retrievable": false,
  "created_at": "2016-06-08T16:41:22Z",
  "updated_at": "2016-06-08T16:41:26Z",
  "labels": {

  }
}
```

## Listing Service Offerings

Listing `service offerings` MUST comply with [listing all resource entities of a resource type](#listing-all-resource-entities-of-a-resource-type).

### Route

`GET /v1/service_offerings`

### Response Body

```json
{  
  "has_more_items": true,
  "num_items": 523,
  "items":[  
    {  
      "id": "138401bc-80bd-4d67-bf3a-956e4d543c3c",
      "name": "my-service-offering",
      "description": "service offering description",
      "displayName": "display-name",
      "longDescription": "long-name",
      "service_broker_id": "0e7250aa-364f-42c2-8fd2-808b0224376f",
      "bindable": true,
      "plan_updateable": false,
      "instances_retrievable": false,
      "bindings_retrievable": false,
      "created_at": "2016-06-08T16:41:22Z",
      "updated_at": "2016-06-08T16:41:26Z",
      "labels": {

      }
    }
  ]
}
```

## Service Plan Management

The resource supports [labels](#labels-object).

## Fetching a Service Plan

> Fetching of a `service plan` resource entity MUST comply with [fetching a resource entity](#fetching-a-resource-entity).

Reviewer 2: Following the convention this resource should be either named "plan" or the route should be changed to "service_plans"

### Route

`GET /v1/plans/:plan_id`

`:plan_id` MUST be the ID of a previously created plan.

### Response Body

#### Service Plan Object

```json
{  

>   "id": "138401bc-80bd-4d67-bf3a-956e4d543c3c",

Reviewer 2: The same ID was used on previous example for Service offering. Better to change this identifier.

\* Fields with an asterisk are REQUIRED.

## Service Instance Management

### Provisioning a Service Instance

### Request

#### Route

> `POST /v1/service_instances`

Reviewer 7: Should this to follow the OSB spec? Like, being the same plus labels?

#### Headers

The following HTTP Headers are defined for this operation:

| Header | Type | Description |
| ------ | ---- | ----------- |
| Authorization* | string | Provides a means for authentication and authorization |

\* Headers with an asterisk are REQUIRED.

#### Body

```json
{  
  "name": "my-service-instance",
  "service_plan_guid": "fe173a83-df28-4891-8d91-46334e04600d",
  "parameters": {  
    "parameter1": "value1",
    "parameter2": "value2"
  },
  "labels": {  
    "context_guid": "bvsded31-c303-123a-aab9-8crar19e1218"
  }
}
```

### Response

| Status Code | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |

> | 201 Created     | MUST be returned if the resource was synchronously created. |

Reviewer 7: 202 Accepted 
create, update and delete (for broker, instance, binding) must async operations IMO

| 400 Bad Request | MUST be returned if the request is malformed or missing mandatory data. The `description` field MAY be used to return a user-facing error message, providing details about which part of the request is malformed or what data is missing as described in [Errors](#errors).|
| 409 Conflict    | MUST be returned if a resource with the same `id` or `name` already exists. The `description` field MAY be used to return a user-facing error message, as described in [Errors](#errors). |

Responses with any other status code will be interpreted as a failure. The response can include a user-facing message in the `description` field. For details see [Errors](#errors).

#### Body

The response body MUST be a valid JSON Object (`{}`).

> ##### Service Instance Object

Reviewer 7: With async call, return a location header with some metadata in the body

```json
{  
  "id": "238001bc-80bd-4d67-bf3a-956e4d543c3c",
  "name": "my-service-instance",
  "service_plan_guid": "fe173a83-df28-4891-8d91-46334e04600d",
  "parameters": {  
    "parameter1": "value1",
    "parameter2": "value2"
  },
  "labels": {  
    "context_guid": [
      "bvsded31-c303-123a-aab9-8crar19e1218"
    ]
  },

>   "state": {  

Reviewer 8: Do we have to return the **state** on the provision call?
Maybe it would be cleaner if the state is retrieved only through the GET instance request similar to Kubernetes with _kubectl get serviceinstance <name> -o yaml_?

    "ready": "False",
    "reasons": [
      "LastOperationSucceeded"
    ],
    "message": "Service Binding is currently being deleted",
    "conditions": [  
      {  
        "type": "LastOperationSucceeded",
        "status": "False",
        "reason": "InProgess",
        "message": "Create deployment pg-0941-12c4b6f2-335a-44a3-b971-424ec78c7353 is still in progress",
        "name": "Create"
      },
      {  
        "type": "OrphanMitigationRequired",
        "status": "False",
        "reason": "ServiceBrokerResponseSuccess",
        "message": "Service Broker returned 202 Accepted for PUT https://pg-broker.com/v2/service_instances/123-52c4b6f2-335a-44a3-c971-424ec78c7114"
      }
    ]
  },
  "created_at": "2016-06-08T16:41:22Z",
  "updated_at": "2016-06-08T16:41:26Z"
}
```

### Fetching a Service Instance

### Request

#### Route

> `GET /v1/service_instances/:service_instance_id`

Reviewer 7: query by labels

Reviewer 4: I assume there is only one instance with this `service_instance_id`

| Authorization* | string | Provides a means for authentication and authorization |

\* Headers with an asterisk are REQUIRED.

### Response

| Status Code | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| 200 OK | MUST be returned if the request execution has been successful. The expected response body is below. |
| 404 Not Found | MUST be returned if the requested resource is missing. The `description` field MAY be used to return a user-facing error message, providing details about which part of the request is malformed or what data is missing as described in [Errors](#errors).|

Responses with any other status code will be interpreted as a failure. The response can include a user-facing message in the `description` field. For details see [Errors](#errors).

#### Body

The response body MUST be a valid JSON Object (`{}`).

##### Service Instance Object

```json
{  
  "id": "238001bc-80bd-4d67-bf3a-956e4d543c3c",
  "name": "my-service-instance",
  "service_plan_guid": "fe173a83-df28-4891-8d91-46334e04600d",
  "parameters": {  
    "parameter1": "value1",
    "parameter2": "value2"
  },
  "labels": {  
    "context_guid": [
      "bvsded31-c303-123a-aab9-8crar19e1218"
    ]
  },

>   "state": {  

Reviewer 7: state should be accessible as sub-resource and not returned here. Return a link to `/v1/service_instances/:instance_id/state`

Reviewer 7: Also, maybe added link to the service bindings for this instance

    "ready": "False",
    "reasons": [  

    ],
    "message": "Service Binding is ready for use",
    "conditions": [  
      {  
        "type": "LastOperationSucceeded",
        "status": "True",
        "reason": "Completed",
        "message": "Create deployment pg-0941-12c4b6f2-335a-44a3-b971-424ec78c7353 succeeded at 2018-09-26T07:43:36.000Z",
        "name": "Create"
      },
      {  
        "type": "OrphanMitigationRequired",
        "status": "True",
        "reason": "ServiceBrokerTimeout",
        "message": "Service Broker request timeout: PUT https://pg-broker.com/v2/service_instances/123-52c4b6f2-335a-44a3-c971-424ec78c7114"
      }
    ]
  },
  "created_at": "2016-06-08T16:41:22Z",
  "updated_at": "2016-06-08T16:41:26Z"
}
```

###  Listing Service Instances

### Request

#### Route

`GET /v1/service_instances`

#### Parameters

| Query-String Field | Type | Description |
| ------------------ | ---- | ----------- |

> | page | int | page of items to fetch. |

Reviewer 7: wouldn't from & to be better?

> | pageSize | int | number of items per page. If not provided, defaults to 50. |

Reviewer 7: a range should be specified as well - [0,100] for example

      }
    ]
  },
  "created_at": "2016-06-08T16:41:22Z",
  "updated_at": "2018-06-08T16:41:26Z"
}
```

\* Fields with an asterisk are REQUIRED.

### Deleting a Service Instance

### Request

`DELETE /v1/service_instances/:service_instance_id`

`:service_instance_id` MUST be the ID of a previously provisioned service instance.

#### Parameters

| Name | Type | Description |
| ---- | ---- | ----------- |
| force | boolean | Whether to force the deletion of the resource and all asociated resources from Service Manager. No call to the actual Service Broker is performed. |

#### Headers

The following HTTP Headers are defined for this operation:

| Header | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Authorization* | string | Provides a means for authentication and authorization |

\* Headers with an asterisk are REQUIRED.

### Response

| Status Code | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| 200 OK | MUST be returned if a resouce deletion is performed as a result of this request. This would imply that the Service Broker returned 200 OK or 202 Accepted. The expected response body is `{}`. |

> | 400 Bad Request | MUST be returned if the request is malformed or missing mandatory data or there are service bindings associated with the service instance and `force` is not `true`. The `description` field MAY be used to return a user-facing error message, as described in [Errors](#errors).|

Reviewer 7: Also, if there are service bindings associated with this service instance

Reviewer 8: Why? I think in the OSB spec it's allowed to update an instance even if there are associated bindings?

_Example:_ Updating Feature Flags instance parameters despite having an associated binding to some application?

  "credentials": {  
    "creds-key-63": "creds-val-63"
  },
  "parameters": {  
    "parameter1": "value1",
    "parameter2": "value2"
  },
  "labels": {  
    "context_guid": [
      "bvsded31-c303-123a-aab9-8crar19e1218"
    ]
  },
  "state": {  
    "ready": "False",
    "reasons": [  
      "LastOperationSucceeded"
    ],
    "message": "Service Binding is currently being deleted",
    "conditions": [  
      {  
        "type": "LastOperationSucceeded",
        "status": "False",
        "reason": "InProgess",
        "message": "Delete deployment pg-0941-12c4b6f2-335a-44a3-b971-424ec78c7353 is still in progress",
        "name": "Delete"
      },
      {  
        "type": "OrphanMitigationRequired",
        "status": "False",
        "reason": "ServiceBrokerRequestSuccess",
        "message": "Service Broker returned 202 Accepted for PUT https://pg-broker.com/v2/service_instances/123-52c4b6f2-335a-44a3-c971-424ec78c7114/service_bindings/asd124bc21-df28-4891-8d91-46334e04600d"
      }
    ]
  },
  "created_at": "2016-06-08T16:41:22Z",
  "updated_at": "2016-06-08T16:41:26Z"
}
```

### Fetching a Service Binding

### Request

> `GET /v1/service_bindings/:service_binding_id`

Reviewer 7: query by labels

### Conditions Object

The `conditions` describe the current conditions in which the resource is. 
Each resource MAY add specific conditions and should also handle those conditions accordingly in case they sum up to an undesired `state` (in most cases this would be a `ready: false` state).
Each `condition` MAY include additional fields apart from those specified below in order to provide meaningful information.

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| type* | string | The type of the condition |
| status* | boolean | Used to determine whether any actions should be taken in regards of this condition. For example, a condition of type operation with status false would imply that the operation is still in progress |
| message* | string | Human-readable details that describe the condition |
| reason* | string | A single word containing the reason for the condition status |

In order to maintain the state up to date, each resource that contains a `state` MUST also expose APIs for retrieving and updating it. 

### Fetchhing the state of a resource

### Request

#### Route

> `GET /v1/resource/:resource_id/state`

Reviewer 7: This would be a mess in the implementation I think. If you don't have one giant table with state and another giant table with labels and rather have multiple tables like `service_instance_state`, `service_binding_state`, `service_instance_labels`, etc. you'd have to keep a mapping between a resource-id and resource-type to query the correct table. 

I'd rather have this and the labels under the correct resource in the path - `/v1/service_instances/:instance_id/state` This applies not only for query, but manipulation of labels

| ----------- | ----------- |
| 200 OK | MUST be returned if the request execution has been successful. The expected response body is below. |
| 404 Not Found | MUST be returned if the requested resource is missing. The `description` field MAY be used to return a user-facing error message, providing details about which part of the request is malformed or what data is missing as described in [Errors](#errors).|

Responses with any other status code will be interpreted as a failure. The response can include a user-facing message in the `description` field. For details see [Errors](#errors).

#### Body

The response body MUST be a valid JSON Object (`{}`). It contains the [state object](#state-object) for this resource.

Example state:

```json
{  
  "ready": "True",
  "reasons": [  
    "LastOperationSucceeded", ...
  ],
  "message": "Resource is currently being deleted",
  "conditions": [  
    {  
      "type": "LastOperationSucceeded",
      "status": "True",
      "reason": "Completed",
      "message": "Successfully updated resource r-0941-12c4b6f2-335a-44a3-b971-424ec78c7353",
      "name": "Update"
    },
    ...
  ]
}
```

### Updating the state of a resource

> Allows updating the `conditions` that form up the state. The `ready`, `reasons` and `message` SHOULD be recalculated after each `state` update.

Reviewer 7: This should not be allowed.

#### Body

The response body MUST be a valid JSON Object (`{}`). It contains the [state object](#state-object) for this resource.

Example state:

```json
{  
  "ready": "True",
  "reasons": [  

  ],
  "message": "Resource is currently being deleted",
  "conditions": [  
    {  
      "type": "LastOperationSucceeded",
      "status": "True",
      "reason": "Completed",
      "message": "Successfully updated resource r-0941-12c4b6f2-335a-44a3-b971-424ec78c7353",
      "name": "Update"
    }
  ]
}
```

## Labels Object

A label is a key-value pair that can be attached to a resource. Service Manager resources MAY have any number of labels.

This allows querying (filtering) on the `List` API of the resource based on multiple labels. The Service Manager MAY
attach additional labels to the resources and MAY restrict updates and deletes for some of the labels.

Example:

```json
{  
  "label1Key": [
    "label1Value"
  ],
  "label2Key": [
    "label2Value1"
  ]
}
```

Resource that MAY contain `labels`  MUST also expose APIs for adding, retrieving, updating and deleting the labels. 

### Adding a Label to a Resource

### Request

#### Route

> `POST /v1/resource/:resource_id/labels`

Reviewer 7: All of these should be under `/v1/<resource_name>/:resource_id/labels`

\* Fields with an asterisk are REQUIRED.

## Service Instance Management

### Provisioning a Service Instance

### Request

#### Route

`POST /v1/service_instances`

#### Headers

The following HTTP Headers are defined for this operation:

| Header | Type | Description |
| ------ | ---- | ----------- |
| Authorization* | string | Provides a means for authentication and authorization |

\* Headers with an asterisk are REQUIRED.

#### Body

```json
{  
  "name": "my-service-instance",

>   "plan_id": "fe173a83-df28-4891-8d91-46334e04600d",

Reviewer 4: `service_id` is missing here. Perhaps `instance_id` might be a good idea also

Reviewer 4: Probably `instance_id` can be generated by SM and returned as response body.

Author: not sure if service_id is needed - you basically create an instance from a plan - wouldnt service_plan_id be sufficient?

The instance_id would be returned when you request the resource (via GET) as `id`. The api will support async provisioning and would return 202 Accepted.

Reviewer 4: It might be problematic if we have the same plan id in different services. If we decide that we allow same plan ids in different services.

Author: plan_ids should be unique imo

  "parameters": {  
    "parameter1": "value1",
    "parameter2": "value2"
  },
  "labels": {  
    "context_id": [
        "bvsded31-c303-123a-aab9-8crar19e1218"
    ]
  }
}
```

### Response

| Status Code | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| 201 Created     | MUST be returned if the resource was created. |
| 400 Bad Request | MUST be returned if the request is malformed or missing mandatory data. The `description` field MAY be used to return a user-facing error message, providing details about which part of the request is malformed or what data is missing as described in [Errors](#errors).|
| 409 Conflict    | MUST be returned if a resource with the same `name` already exists. The `description` field MAY be used to return a user-facing error message, as described in [Errors](#errors). |

Responses with any other status code will be interpreted as a failure. The response can include a user-facing message in the `description` field. For details see [Errors](#errors).

#### Body

The response body MUST be a valid JSON Object (`{}`).

##### Service Instance Object

```json
{  
  "id": "238001bc-80bd-4d67-bf3a-956e4d543c3c",
  "name": "my-service-instance",

>   "service_plan_id": "fe173a83-df28-4891-8d91-46334e04600d",

Reviewer 4: Why `service_plan_id` and not `plan_id`?

Author: for consistency with osb spec

            "name": "Create"
          },
          {  
            "type": "OrphanMitigationRequired",
            "status": "False",
            "reason": "ServiceBrokerResponseSuccess",
            "message": "Service Broker returned 202 Accepted for PUT https://pg-broker.com/v2/service_instances/123-52c4b6f2-335a-44a3-c971-424ec78c7114"
          }
        ]
      },
      "created_at": "2016-06-08T16:41:22Z",
      "updated_at": "2016-06-08T16:41:26Z"
    }
  ]
}
```

### Updating a Service Instance

### Request

`PATCH /v1/service_instances/:service_instance_id`

`:service_instance_id` The ID of a previously provisioned service instance.

#### Headers

The following HTTP Headers are defined for this operation:

| Header | Type | Description |
| ------ | ---- | ----------- |
| Authorization* | string | Provides a means for authentication and authorization |

\* Headers with an asterisk are REQUIRED.

#### Body

```json
{  
  "name": "new-instance-name",
  "parameters": {  
    "parameter1": "value1"
  },
  "labels": [
    { "op": "add", "key": "label1", "values": ["test1", "test2"] },
    { "op": "add_value", "key": "label2", "values": ["test3"] },

>     { "op": "replace", "key": "label2", "values": ["test2"] },

Reviewer 4: I assume that `replace` operation replaces the whole label values. Is that right?

Author: yes

In its role of a platform for the registered brokers, the Service Manager MAY define its own format for `Context Object` and `Originating Identity Header` similar but not limited to those specified in the [OSB spec profiles page](https://github.com/openservicebrokerapi/servicebroker/blob/master/profile.md).

## Credentials Object

This specification does not limit how the Credentials Object should look like as different authentication mechanisms can be used. Depending on the used authentication mechanism, additional fields holding the actual credentials MAY be included.

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| basic | [basic credentials](#basic-credentials-object) | Credentials for basic authentication |
| token | string | Bearer token |

_Exactly_ one of the properties `basic` or `token` MUST be provided.

### Basic Credentials Object

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| username* | string | username |
| password* | string | password |

\* Fields with an asterisk are RENQUIRED.

## State Object

> Resources that support asynchronous creation, deletion and updates MUST contain a `state` object.

Reviewer 9: For consistency we should require all resources to have this - then regardless of whether we're doing sync or async clients can be assured that a GET on a resource will always return (at least) this state object.

Author: Yes, that's my idea as well. The old resources (platforms and brokers havent been updated yet though)

          "bvsded31-c303-123a-aab9-8crar19e1218"
        ]
      },
      "created_at": "2016-06-08T16:41:22Z",
      "updated_at": "2016-06-08T16:41:26Z"
    }
  ]
}
```

## Updating a Service Binding

Updating of a `service binding` resource entity MUST comply with [patching a resource entity](#patching-a-resource-entity).

### Route

`PATCH /v1/service_bindings/:service_binding_id`

`:service_binding_id` The ID of a previously created service binding.

### Request Body

```json
{  
  "name": "new-binding-name",
  "labels": [
    { "op": "add", "key": "label1", "values": ["test1", "test2"] },
    { "op": "add_value", "key": "label2", "values": ["test3"] },
    { "op": "replace", "key": "label2", "values": ["test2"] },
    { "op": "remove", "key": "label2" },
    { "op": "remove_value", "key": "label1", "values": ["test2"] }
  ]  
}
```

## Deleting a Service Binding

Deletion of a `service binding` resource entity MUST comply with [deleting a resource entity](#deleting-a-resource-entity).

### Route

`DELETE /v1/service_bindings/:service_binding_id`

`:service_binding_id` MUST be the ID of a previously created service binding.

## Service Offering Management

> As per the OSB API terminology a service offering represents the advertisement of a service that a service broker supports. Service Manager MUST expose a management API of the service offerings offered by the registered service brokers.

Reviewer 7: It's not management if you have only a GET API. Querying maybe? Same for Plans

Author: I'd rather keep it management for consistency with other apis - but i get your point

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| ready* | boolean | Indicates whether a resource is ready for use or not. This value is calculated by the Service Manager based on the conditions' statuses using a resource specific aggregation policy for the conditions that are defined for this resource |
| conditions* | array of [conditions](#conditions-object) | Describe the state of the resource and indicate what actions should be taken in order for the resource to become ready. May be an empty array |
| message* | string | Human-readable summary for the reasoning behind the `ready` being what it is |

### Conditions Object

The `conditions` describe the current condition in which the resource is. 
Each resource MAY add resource specific conditions and should also handle those conditions accordingly in case they sum up to an undesired `state` (in most cases this would be a `ready:false` state).
Each `condition` MAY include additional fields apart from those specified below in order to provide meaningful information.

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |

> | type* | string | The type of the condition. Each resource defines a set of condition types that are relevant for it. |

Author: It could be - what usecases do you have in mind?

> | type* | string | The type of the condition. Each resource defines a set of condition types that are relevant for it. |

Reviewer 4: If you want to check whether one condition was met before another one. It is not very clear use case, but still can be something

> | type* | string | The type of the condition. Each resource defines a set of condition types that are relevant for it. |

Author: I guess we could extend later on if we see a usecase - normally when you check if conditions are met (causes are procesed), we do it by cause type and the order is explicit as part of the code that implements the logic that does the processing. Which would imply that the timestamp might be useful in this particular scenario.

      "label1Key": [
        "label1Value"
      ],
      "label2Key": [
        "label2Value1"
      ]
    }
}  
```

### Naming Labels

TODO: Add rules for labels naming

### Patching Labels

The PATCH APIs of the resources that support labels MUST support the following `label operations` in order to update labels and label values.

| Operation | Description |
| --------- | ----------- |
| add | Adds a new label with the name in `label`. The `value` MUST be a string or an array of strings. If the label already exists, the operation fails. |
| add_values | Appends a new value to a label. The `value` MUST be a string or an array of strings. If the label does not exist, the operation fails. |
| replace | Replaces a all values of a label with new values. The `value` MUST be a string or an array of strings. If the label does not exist, the operation fails. |
| remove | Removes a label. If the label does not exist, the operation fails. |
| remove_values | Removes a value from a label. The `value` MUST be a string or an array of strings. If the label does not exist, the operation fails |

If one operations fails, none of the changes will be applied.

#### Example

##### Route

> `PATCH /v1/:resources_type/:resource_entity_id`

Author: the current approach is to be able to patch labels on the same api as the resource, yes - for simplicity reasons

### Basic Credentials Object

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| username* | string | username |
| password* | string | password |

\* Fields with an asterisk are REQUIRED.

## State Object

All resources that support mutation operations (creation, deletion and update) MUST contain a `state` object. After performing a mutation request, the response MUST include a `Location` header from where information about the resource's `state` can be obtained. This MAY or MAY NOT be the `Retrieve` (`GET`) API for the resource entity that is being mutated.

The `state` reflects the real state in which the resource currently is. It includes information regarding whether the resource is currently usable or not (`ready` or not) and it contains `conditions` that provide further details if the resource is not ready (is not usable).

The `state` is of particular interest when the mutation operations are asynchronous. But even synchronously mutatable resources should provide `state` for consistency reasons. This `state` of synchronously mutated resources would often include no conditions.

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |

> | ready* | boolean | Indicates whether a resource is ready for use or not. This value is calculated by the Service Manager based on the conditions' statuses using a resource specific aggregation policy for the conditions that are defined for this resource |

Reviewer 3: How the API client can determine if the async operation is complete or not?
`ready: false` might mean that operation is still running or it has failed.
Generally, how the client can distinguish between the state of the resource and the state of the async operation? Generally these are not the same, e.g. while an update operation is running the resource might be ready for use with its old state.

Author: Ready does not contain semantics about the last operation. Generally, resources resources that allow async ops should model a last_operation condition similarly to the one in the example. It contains details about the state of the last operation.

Ready just provides info whether the resource is ready (usable) or not (maybe because it's being created or deleted or is simply corrupted).

| conditions* | array of [conditions](#conditions-object) | Describe the state of the resource and indicate what actions should be taken in order for the resource to become ready. May be an empty array |
| message* | string | Human-readable summary for the reasoning behind the `ready` being what it is |

> ### Conditions Object

Reviewer 7: I don't like the name "conditions". The resource is in one condition and it is ready or not.
This object will be available only if the resource is not ready. In that case they are `causes` or `issues` or `problems` that result in the resource being not ready. Or they are `actions` that should be taken in order for the resource to become ready.

Author: Let's go for causes for now

## Labels Object

A label is a key-value pair that can be attached to a resource. Service Manager resources MAY have any number of labels represented by the `labels` field.

This allows querying (filtering) on the `List` API of the resource based on multiple labels. The Service Manager MAY
attach additional labels to the resources and MAY restrict updates and deletes for some of the labels.

The `labels` MUST be returned as part of the `List` and `Fetch` APIs.

Example of a Resource Entity that has labels:

```json
{
  "id": "0941-12c4b6f2-335a-44a3-b971-424ec78c7353",
  ...
  "labels": {  
      "label1Key": [
        "label1Value"
      ],
      "label2Key": [
        "label2Value1"
      ]
    }
}  
```

### Naming Labels

TODO: Add rules for labels naming

### Patching Labels

The PATCH APIs of the resources that support labels MUST support the following `label operations` in order to update labels and label values.

| Operation | Description |
| --------- | ----------- |
| add | Adds a new label with the name in `label`. The `value` MUST be a string or an array of strings. If the label already exists, the operation fails. |

> | add_values | Appends a new value to a label. The `value` MUST be a string or an array of strings. If the label does not exist, the operation fails. |

Reviewer 3: Sometimes you need add a label value but you don't know if the label already exists or not. It would be useful to support this scenario.

Also clarify how duplicate values for one label are handled.

Author: I guess we have two options - we can say that adding stuff that already exists is ok and does not return an error - in regards of labels. Or we can say that if one is not sure a get on the resource will return the labels and a check should be performed.

\* Fields with an asterisk are REQUIRED.

## OSB Management

The OSB Management API is an implementation of the [OSB API specification](https://github.com/openservicebrokerapi/servicebroker). It enables the Service Manager to act as a central service broker and be registered as one in the  Platforms that are associated with it (meaning the Platforms that are registered in the Service Manager). The Service Manager also takes care of delegating the OSB calls to the registered brokers (meaning brokers that are registered in the Service Manager) that should process the request. As such, the Service Manager acts as a Platform for the actual (registered) brokers.

### Request 

The OSB Management API prefixes the routes specified in the OSB spec with `/v1/osb/:broker_id`.

`:broker_id` is the ID of the broker that the OSB call is targeting. The Service Manager MUST forward the call to this broker. The `broker_id` MUST be a globally unique non-empty string.

> When a request is send to the OSB Management API, after forwarding the call to the actual broker but before returning the response, the Service Manager MAY alter the headers and the body of the response. For example, in the case of `/v1/osb/:broker_id/v2/catalog` request, the Service Manager MAY, amongst other things, add additional plans (reference plan) to the catalog.

Reviewer: `is sent`

| NotFound | 404 | Entity not found or not visible to the current user. | |
| Conflict | 409 | An entity with this name already exists. | Retry creation with another name. |
| AssociatedEntityConflict | 409 | The entity cannot be deleted because an associated entity exists. | Remove the associated entity or retry the delete operation with the `cascade` or `force` flag. |
| VisibilityAlreadyExists | 409 | A visibility for this Platform and Service Plan combination already exists. | Update visibility instead. |
| Gone | 410 | There is no data about the operation anymore. | Don't retry. |
| ConcurrentOperation | 422 | The entity is already processed by another operation. | Retry after the currently running operation is finished. |

## Mitigating Orphans

Service Manager MUST also handle the orphan mitigation process as described in the [Orphan Mitigation section](https://github.com/openservicebrokerapi/servicebroker/blob/master/spec.md#orphan-mitigation) of the OSB spec for Service Instances and Binding that have been created by the Service Manager. How this is done is an implementation detail.

> The Service Manager MAY create an operation when the orphan mitigation is in process (deletion of the Service Instance or Binding) is running. This allows users to track the progress and potentially failed attempts.

Reviewer 2: The Service Manager MAY create an operation when the orphan mitigation is in process (deletion of the Service Instance or Binding is running).

## Operation Object

Operation objects are meant for clients. They SHOULD NOT convey any Service Manager implementation or process details or use internal terminology. Status description should be meaningful to the majority of end-users.
Operation objects are created as a result of a REST call to the SM API.

| Field | Type | Description |
| -------------- | ---- | ----------- |
| id* | string | The operation ID. |
| description | string | A user-facing message that can be used to tell the user details about the operation. |
| type* | string | can be one of CREATE, UPDATE, DELETE |
| state* | string | Valid values are `in progress`, `succeeded`, and `failed`. While `"state": "in progress"`, the Platform SHOULD continue polling. A response with `"state": "succeeded"` or `"state": "failed"` MUST cause the Platform to cease polling. |
| resource_id | string | The ID of the resource. It MUST be present for update and delete requests. It MUST also be present when `"state": "succeeded"`. It SHOULD be present for create operation as soon as the ID of new entity is known. |
| resource_type* | string | The type of the resource (e.g. /v1/service_brokers, /v1/service_instances) |

> | platform_id* | string | The ID of the platform from which the operation originated |

Reviewer 2: Instead "The ID of the platform from which the operation originated." proper is to say "The ID of the platform from which the resource that is related to current operation originated."

| deletion_scheduled | string | The time when deletion of this resource was scheduled [in ISO 8601 format](#data-formats). |
| reschedule | bool | Whether the operation has reached a checkpoint and is retryable. |
| reschedule_timestamp | string | The time when reschedule of this resource was scheduled [in ISO 8601 format](#data-formats). |
| correlation_id | string | The correlation_id from the request related to this operation |
| labels | collection of [labels](#labels-object) | Additional data associated with the resource entity. MAY be an empty array. |
| created_at* | string | The time of operation start [in ISO 8601 format](#data-formats). |
| updated_at* | string | The time of operation end [in ISO 8601 format](#data-formats). This field SHOULD be present if `"state": "succeeded"` or `"state": "failed"`. |

> | errors | array of error object | Errors describing why the operation has failed. |

Reviewer 2: Add link to #errors here.
